Hello and welcome to this lecture in this lecture.

we will talk about Kube Scheduler.

Earlier we discussed that the kubernetes scheduler is responsible for scheduling pods on nodes.

Now don't let the graphic mislead you.

remember the scheduler is only responsible for deciding which pod goes on which node. It doesn’t actually

place the pod on the nodes.

That’s the job of the kubelet. The kubelet or the captain on the ship is who creates the pod on the

ships.

The scheduler only decides which pod goes where.

Let's look at how the scheduler does that in a bit more detail.

First of all why do you need a scheduler? When there are many ships and many containers,

You want to make sure that the right container ends up on the right ship.

For example there could be different sizes of ships and containers.

You want to make sure the ship has sufficient capacity to accommodate those containers different ships

maybe going to different destinations.

You want to make sure your containers are placed on the right ships so they end up in the right destination

In kubernetes, the scheduler decides which nodes the pods are placed on

depending on certain criteria. You may have PODs with different resource requirements,

You can have nodes in the cluster dedicated to certain applications.

So how does the scheduler assign these PODs? The scheduler looks at each POD and tries to find the

best node for it.

For example, let’s take one of these PODs.

The big blue one. It has a set of CPU and Memory requirements.

The scheduler goes through two phases to identify the best node for the pod in the first phase.

The scheduler tries to filter out the nodes that do not fit the profile for this pod.

For example, the nodes that do not have sufficient CPU and memory resources requested by the pod.

So the first two small nodes are filtered out. So we are now left with two nodes on which the POD

can be placed.

Now how does the scheduler pick one from the two the scheduler ranks the node to identify the best fit

for the pod.

It uses a priority function to assign a score to the nodes on a scale of 0 to 10.

For example the scheduler calculates the amount of resources that would be free on the nodes after placing

the pod on them.

In this case, the one on the right would have 6 CPUs free if the pod was placed on it which is 4 more

than the other one so it gets a better rank.

And so it wins.

So that's how a scheduler works at a high level.

And of course these can be customized and you can write your own scheduler as well.

There are many more topics to look at such as resource requirements, limits, taints and tolerations,

node selectors, affinity rules etc. Which is why we have an entire section dedicated to scheduling coming

up in this course where we will discuss each of these in much more detail.

For now we will continue to focus on the scheduler as a process at a high level.

So how do you install the kube-scheduler?

Download the kube-scheduler from the kubernetes release page. Extract it and run it as a service.

when you run it as a service.

You specify the scheduler configuration file.

So how do you view the kube-scheduler server options?

Again, if you set it up with kubeadm tool, kubeadm deploys the kube-scheduler as a pod

in the kube-system namespace

on the master node. You can see the options within the pod definition file located at etc

kubernetes manifests folder.

You can also see the running process and the effective options by listing the process on the master

node and searching for kube-scheduler.

Well that's it for this lecture.

I will see you in the next.

About this course
Prepare for the Certified Kubernetes Administrators Certification with live practice
